# CS-465
Full Stack Development I
------------------------
Architecture
Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
The two types of frontend that are used in this project are an express website for the customer facing side, and a SPA for the client facing sidel. The express side loads fully loads each page seperately when the user goes to that page, this means that there is a fast initial load of the website (since the load time is spread out in the customers eyes through all pages that they visit) and it means that the website is crawlable by things like search engines. The SPA is not crawlable and has a longer initial load time, but since each link only loads the new information (and not a full reload) the application is much faster after initial launch.
As for the backend, the project uses the NoSQL MongoDB because the data could be read and wrote quickly, could be scaled as needed, and was schema-less which allowed me to make my own models for the various types of data that would be used.
------------------------
Functionality
How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) handles that data being used by the application, whereas Javascript is the language used by the web application to perform the actual functionality. In terms of tieing together the front and back ends, JSON can act as a messenger between the two and allow for things like defining data structures and models from the application code so that it is easier to interact with, update, and maintain.
In the process of creating this application I performed several refactorings.
1.) In module 2 refactored the static HTML code into Handlebar templates for the header and footer of the web application in order to make changing and maintaing the application easier
2.) In module 5 I refactored the website to pull data from the MongoDB database instead of the JSON file which allowed Mongoose to be used as middle ware and allowed CRUD methods to be used and I refactored the views to use the API instead of the static JSON file. 
3.) In module 6 I refactored the trip rendering into an angular component to allow for an easy transition between the card view and list views needed by different sized screens and refactored the URL varaible in the getTrips method in app_admin/services/trip-data.service.ts since it is being used by both the getTrips and addTrips methods. 
4.) In module 7 I refactored most of the register function in app_admin/services/trip-data.service.ts into the handleAuthAPICall so I could reuse that code in the login method and I refactored the visual components for the admin page to provide login/log out capabilities using a navbar.
------------------------
Testing
Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
In this full stack application the methods for the HTTP that are utilized are get (the read part of CRUD that retrieves data), post (the create part of CRUD that creates data and stores it (in this case a MongoDB database)), put (the update part of CRUD that updates the data), and delete (the delete part of CRUD that deletes a piece of data like a trip or user). Endpoints are the specific URLs that differentiate the different pages of the application and are ties to a specific method, there are a lot even in a simple application like this and can be found on page 7 of the design document, along with the mehtod used, its purpose, and notes. Security is the necessary aspect of the application that keeps everything safe and secure from someone trying to perform unauthorized actions, this could be editing trips without authorization, adding trips that aren't real to defraud users, or steal company or customer information (this application using token based authorization that expires after an hour to prevent unauthorized access to the editing and adding of trips, sha512 ecryption of data, and CORS to ensure that only trusted external calls are made). 
------------------------
Reflection
How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
My professional goal is to become a software developer, so doing a project like this that involves starting with a basic or relatively blank project and turning it into a full stack application is exactly the kind of experience I need. During this course I have increased my ability to debug code, follow instructions and guides, use code templates to make my own code (in the form of following turning the static travels page into a template with JSON to turn the other pages into tempates), and I have learned to use MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node to create a MEAN full stack application.
------------------------
